DETECTION Vs. PREVENTION
========================

INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEM
--------------------------

IDS is a passive monitoring solution for detecting possible malicious activities/patterns, abnormal incidents, and policy violations. It is responsible for generating
alerts for each suspicious event. 

TWO MAIN TYPES OF IDS:
A. Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) NIDS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network. The aim is to investigate the traffic on the entire
subnet. If a signature is identified, an alert is created.

B.Host-based Intrusion Detection System (HIDS):  HIDS monitors the traffic flow from a single endpoint device. The aim is to investigate the traffic on a 
particular device. If a signature is identified, an alert is created.

NOTE: IDS can identify threats but require user assistance to stop them.

INTRUSION PREVENTION SYSTEM
----------------------------

IPS is an active protecting solution for preventing possible malicious activities/patterns, abnormal incidents, and policy violations. It is responsible for 
stopping/preventing/terminating the suspicious event as soon as the detection is performed.

FOUR MAIN TYPES OF IPS SYSTEMS:
-------------------------------

A. Network Intrusion Prevention System (NIPS) :  NIPS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network. The aim is to protect the traffic on the entire 
subnet. If a signature is identified, the ** connection is terminated **.

B. Behaviour-based Intrusion Prevention System (Network Behaviour Analysis - NBA) :Behaviour-based systems monitor the traffic flow from various areas of the network.
The aim is to protect the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN NIPS and BEHAVIOUR-BASED:
The difference between NIPS and Behaviour-based is; behaviour based systems require a training period (also known as "baselining") to learn the normal traffic 
and differentiate the malicious traffic and threats. This model provides more efficient results against new threats.

The training period is crucial to avoid any false positives.

C.Wireless Intrusion Prevention System (WIPS) :  WIPS monitors the traffic flow from of wireless network. The aim is to protect the wireless traffic and stop
possible attacks launched from there. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.

D. Host-based Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) : HIPS actively protects the traffic flow from a single endpoint device. The aim is to investigate the traffic
on a particular device. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated.

NOTE: HIPS working mechanism is similiar to HIDS, The difference between them is that while HIDS creates alerts for threats, HIPS stops the threats by terminating
the connection.

NOTE: IPS can identify and block the threats with less user assistance at the detection time.

DETECTION / PREVENTION TECHNIQUES:
----------------------------------

A. Signature Based:  This technique relies on rules that identify the specific patterns of the known malicious behaviour. This model helps detect known threats. 

B. Behaviour Based: This technique identifies new threats with new patterns that pass through signatures.  The model compares the known/normal with unknown/abnormal
behaviours. This model helps detect previously unknown or new threats.

C. Policy Based: This technique compares detected activities with system configuration and security policies. This model helps detect policy violations.















